To use this library, you need to
construct an instance of the pool.
So you're allowed to have as
many pool instances as you want.
You would want one pool instance for
each type of value that you were pooling.
In other words, don't put arrays and
objects in the same pool.
If you're doing array pooling,
have one pool for the arrays, if you're
doing object pooling, have another one,
if you're doing class instance pool.
They should all be identical is the point.
That's one of the concepts of
this sort of data structure.
So we'll create ourselves an array pool.
It's the create function.
And what you pass to it is a function that
constructs instances of the value that
you care about.
So in our case, we just need
something that creates empty arrays.
I'll pass it an error function
that creates an empty array.
DeePool will automatically invoke
that function anytime it needs to
make new instances of your value,
anytime it needs to grow itself.
So that can be as complex as you want.
That could be like constructing a class
instance or calling out your data.
Whatever you need it to
be goes in that function.
Ideally, usually, it's just returning
an empty array or an empty object, but
can be more sophisticated.
You can start using that pool just as is,
and
it defaults because
the documentation discloses this.
It defaults to starting out
with five entries in your pool.
It lazily does that, when you ask for
the first one it goes ahead and
creates a pool of five, and
then it doubles from there.
That five doubling might be good for
many of your small usages.
In this particular case, I've already
done some pre-work on this exercise,
which is that I first went through and
benchmarked how many arrays was I
creating and throwing away in my
average case when I was typing in,
say, a 10 or 11 character word?
And it turns out that number was in
the multi thousands of arrays that
I was creating and throwing away
as it recursively went through and
made all of its matches of several
hundred words to return to me, okay?
So several thousand arrays
are what is being created, and
then I went through and using some console
logging and some counters and stuff,
tried to get an approximation for
how many do I need at any given time.
What's the most that I'm ever
using concurrently when we're 8,
10, 12 levels deep of recursion?
And that number was around,
it was somewhere between 20 and 25.
So I set it at 25 and then I fine-tuned
it a little lower and a little higher.
And I arrived at, for my testing, that
if I picked 23 as the size of the pool,
that the pool never needed to grow.
But I didn't end up with any
unused items in my pool.
Now, your mileage may vary if you're
trying out different dictionary lengths or
trying out different lengths of input.
You might end up needing 25 or 24.
But we're just gonna go ahead and
pre-grow our pool to size
23 since I already did some
of that pre fine-tuning work,
and I think that's a pretty
close number for most cases.
So how do we use this pool?
That's where the real big game is.
The first thing that we're gonna do
is we are still gonna have that same
function here, but
I'm gonna make another function that
will be the findWords function
that takes our input.
And then we're gonna rename
this function to findAllWords,
just cuz I'm uncreative and
I can't come up with another name for it.
I will explain in a little bit
why we need two functions, but
it's because I need to do a little bit
of cleanup work after the final call.
All right, so in the findWords function,
I'm going to,
Call my findAllWords with my input.
Actually, I should have
probably left this as the same.
We could leave this or not.
You don't technically.
Whether you use this or
not, it would be fine, but
we'll leave it there since that's
what I did in the Git repo.
Okay, so findAllWords is our sub function,
the one that doesn't get called publicly,
and it's the one that's gonna
do all of its recursion for us.
We're gonna go ahead and
call that and you might think, well,
all we need to do is
just return all words.
Why do we even create
this adaptor function?
Well, before we get into the internals
of what findAllWords is gonna do,
it is going to return us an array, and
the array that it returns us will
have come from the object pool.
And we don't wanna lose that object.
We want to reset and recycle that object.
So we wanna pass out to the calling
code a new array that's not part of our
pool that the calling code can
do whatever it wants with.
But we are internally managing
our set of pooled arrays, and
we don't wanna lose one of those.
We need to keep all of them and
reset all of them and
make sure the pool gets
back to its initial state.
So we are going to use something that has
become much less common to see these days,
but we're gonna use a version of
the try construct called try finally.
I don't know if anybody out there
has used the finally block before,
you don't see that too often.
But what the purpose of the finally block,
notice I don't even need
a catch clause here.
If I put a finally block,
it will happen every time no matter what,
even if an exception occurred.
So the purpose of finally
blocks is to do cleanup,
which is exactly what we're doing here.
We are cleaning up our memory.
This is exactly what try finally
exists for, is this kind of work.
So we need to take the allWords and
set its length = 0, that's resetting
the array back to an empty array.
And we need to do pool.recycle and
recycle all the words.
Recycle that back into our pool.
That's our cleanup.
Does anybody spot
the problem with this code?
Before we even look at how
findAllWords does what it does,
does anybody spot the problem with this?
Somebody in the chat?
>> We are not taking
the words from the pool.
>> We are gonna do that inside
of this findAllWords function.
Like I said, we're assuming that this
thing is gonna return us an array that
came from the pool,
which is why we need to recycle it back.
>> You are returning and
the function exits.
>> We are returning and
the function exits, but
it always guarantees to do
the finally block after it exits.
>> AllWords is not a new array.
>> There you go.
We are returning allWords, and
then immediately emptying out allWords.
So the calling code is gonna be like,
what?
You gave me an empty array.
We need to return a copy of allWords, and
then clean out the allWords in recycler.
Little nuances that when you start doing
stuff like working with an object pool,
you gotta pay attention to
very little nuances like this.
It's easy to get tripped up.
Okay, this next set of work that we're
going to do, we're going to wire
up the findAllWords function in as
many places as we possibly can.
When it goes to create a new array,
instead of creating a new array,
we wanna get an array from the pool and
add values into that array rather than
constructing a new array, that's the task.
And whenever we're done with an array,
we want to reset the array and
recycle it back into the pool.
So that's what I meant by saying
it's a little bit intrusive here, so
it makes the code a little bit uglier,
but it's not too bad, I don't think.
We just need to look for places like
this where we construct the new array.
And so
instead of constructing this new array,
we are going to check
an array out from the pool.
So we will, instead of saying that,
we will say pool.use,
that gets us another
instance from our pool.
Let's look for
other places that we create arrays.
Here's a place that we create an array.
When we're creating remaining letters,
we create an array.
So let's do, Pool.use,
and instead of being able to
kind of nicely declare this,
we're gonna actually have to push into
the array that we got out of the pool.
So it's slightly less ergonomic,
but we'll push in, These values.
We'll still spread them out.
One note is that the slice method here
built in to JavaScript is in fact
returning arrays, and we can't do anything
about that cuz that's a built-in method.
So this is an example of an array that
we just have to get the array and
it just has to get garbage collected.
This is not a perfect solution, but in so
far as any arrays that we can control,
we wanna use those from the pool.
And any of the other ones that we don't
have control over, we just shrug and
say it's just part of using JavaScript.
So we can't do anything
about those slices,
but we did take care of the array that we
had been creating for remaining letters.
Now we wanna take the array that
is coming back from findWords.
We know that findWords, I'm sorry, this
is gonna be findAllWords, I mess this up
every time I do this workshop, we have
renamed that, that's our recursive call,
findAllWords, but
we need to take that function and call it.
And we know that that thing
returns us a pooled array, right?
Because look, that thing is gonna be this,
and that's a pooled array.
We know findAllWords is giving us a pooled
array, just like we know it up here.
It's a pooled array.
So we need to get that array.
So I'll call moreWords.
We need to get that array.
We need to push those values into
our existing levels words array.
So we need to say
words.push(...moreWords).
And now we have this moreWords array,
which is a pooled array.
What do we do when we're
done with an array?
We reset it.
Which for JavaScript arrays is as
easy as setting its length = 0.
And then what's the last thing that we do?
Recycle.
In fact, we are also done with remaining
letters because we've made this call.
So we can also set remainingLetters,
.length = 0.
And we can also recycle remaining letters.
We pulled two different
arrays out of the pool, and
now we're resetting both of them and
putting them back.
The discipline here is any time you
take something out of the pool,
make sure you know where you're done
with it, and reset it and recycle it.
Otherwise, you've completely shot yourself
in the foot because the pools are gonna
grow infinitely and you're not
gonna get that reuse that you want.
One last little nuance that we have
to handle is this code down here,
which is calling our uniquing.
You see that we're creating an array here,
and we don't wanna do that with an array.
So what we're gonna do is say
wordsSet is a new set with the words.
That's a new set instance, and
because we're only doing this once,
we don't really need to
worry about pooling.
We're only doing this on that last call,
if you will, so
we don't really need to
worry about pooling.
But you could also do
a pool of set instances or
a pool of map instances or whatever.
Here there's only one, so
it's not that big a deal.
I've constructed the set, so I've now
copied the words over into a unique set.
And so now I can do my resetting.
I can say words.length = 0,
cuz I no longer need that array.
And I can,
Then push into words,
What comes out of wordsSet.
So we'll dot dot dot of wordsSet.
So I reset it to 0 because I don't
wanna reconstruct an instance of it.
I'm reusing the same pooled instance.
I set it's length to 0,
pulled it back out of the set, and
that's now what I'm going
to end up returning.
So if you follow through the logic here,
we have a pool.use and
a pool.use, and we have a pool.recycle and
a pool.recycle.
Yes?
>> Why doesn't recycling method
make an array empty itself?
>> Why do you have to
do your own resetting?
That's basically the question.
Because the pool is generalized.
It says I can handle any kinds of values.
You might be handing me instances of some
complex custom class that you've defined.
It has no way of knowing
how to reset a value.
It technically could have
done some special casing and
said, I know how to reset arrays and
I know how to reset objects or whatever.
But because it doesn't do any frills and
doesn't have any performance
overheads that it doesn't need,
it's your job to do the resetting
before you pass it back to recycle.
Another question?
>> If we do this recycling manually,
does the JS recycling engine check all
these steps again after the function
gets removed from the stack call?
>> The way that you should think about
this is that we are not actually
growing the JavaScript memory
stack very much as we go down.
That's by design, what we're trying
to do is not grow the stack.
We grew the stack by all the arrays
that we needed when we did pool.use23.
So as we walk our way down into
all of these recursive levels,
we are in fact having JavaScript
construct new function call
frames on the call stack, and
there is a little bit of value creation
on the stack because of
the input.slice that we don't control.
And so some of that is getting cleaned up
as it goes back after the call stack frame
goes away, that has to get cleaned up.
But the big thing that we're focused on
here is that all of these thousands of
intermediary arrays that we were creating
before in the previous solution,
were no longer creating thousands and
thousands of arrays that JavaScript
needs to garbage collect.
We pre-created the 23 that we knew that
we would need, we checked them out,
used them, reset them, and recycled them.
So I guess the real answer to
the question being posed is,
JavaScript is still needing to do
its own memory cleanup, and yes,
there might be some garbage
collection that happens.
We have significantly reduced
the pressure on the garbage collector
by simply putting out thousands fewer
bags of trash down at the curb.
>> How many arrays did you manage to get
rid of using the object pool in this
particular case?
>> Based on my estimate,
I went from, in my testing,
from using several thousand arrays,
to using 23 arrays.
All right, we didn't change any of
the functionality of the code, and
we haven't really impacted
any of the performance.
We could rerun it to show that,
as long as I didn't make a mistake here,
it should still work, and
we should still be getting roughly, uh-oh,
do we have a JavaScript error?
I know what happens, I didn't pull
over the deePool implementation, so
I can't actually run this code.
Just to save the time though, the timings,
you can run it yourself, the timings
are gonna be roughly the same, so
we're not really paying hardly
any performance penalty for this.
We're just simply reducing
the memory pressure on it.
It's just a technique to have in your bag.
Do I use object pools all the time?
No, but I would say maybe 1
out of 100 cases where I'm
implementing an application like this.
I see a place where the algorithm
that I've designed or
that I'm using is particularly
wasteful in creating and
throwing away lots of intermediary
instances of an array or an object.
And then my brain kicks in and I'm like, I
should probably use object pooling, okay?
Another example of places where people
have used object pools, somebody took my
library and used it in, at least for
a while, in one of the semi-popular
libraries that was, I think it was
Redux or something like Redux.
Because they were creating all these
objects for the state dispatches,
and they were creating and throwing away
thousands and millions of these objects.
And then they ended up using deePool
as a way to manage those objects.
And I don't know whether they're still
using it, I think they're probably not.
But for a while, it was being
used by one of those libraries.
So that's just an example in a place
where you're creating and throwing away
a lot of those intermediate data structure
instances, object pooling can be useful.